Internet Engineering Task Force                               C. Pearson
Internet-Draft                                    Independent Submission
Intended status: Informational                         18 September 2026
Expires: 22 March 2027

                Lowest Common Denominator Protocol (LCDP)
                       draft-pearson-lcdp-05

Abstract

   The Lowest Common Denominator Protocol (LCDP) is a message-oriented,
   peer-to-peer wire format consisting of UTF-8 encoded JSON arrays of
   externally tagged objects with object payloads transported over
   datagrams. LCDP provides perpetual compatibility by extension rather
   than versioning: unknown message types and fields are ignored. This
   document describes the wire format, core message types for peer
   discovery and anti-spoofing, and the design rationale. Security,
   reliability, and congestion control are delegated to optional
   messages or higher layers.

   This revision records the results of interoperability testing
   between two independent implementations and closes the ambiguities
   that testing exposed.

Status of This Memo

   This Internet-Draft is submitted in full conformance with the
   provisions of BCP 78 and BCP 79.

   Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering
   Task Force (IETF). Note that other groups may also distribute
   working documents as Internet-Drafts. The list of current Internet-
   Drafts is at https://datatracker.ietf.org/drafts/current/.

   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
   and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
   time. It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference
   material or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

   This Internet-Draft will expire on 22 March 2027.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (c) 2026 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the
   document authors. All rights reserved.

   This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal
   Provisions Relating to IETF Documents (https://trustee.ietf.org/
   license-info) in effect on the date of publication of this document.
   Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights
   and restrictions with respect to this document. Code Components
   extracted from this document must include Simplified BSD License text
   as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
   provided without warranty as described in the Simplified BSD License.


Pearson Expires 22 March 2027 [Page 1]

Table of Contents

   1. Introduction................ 2
   2. Terminology................. 2
   3. Wire Format................. 3
   4. Core Message Types.......... 5
   5. Design Considerations....... 8
   6. Security Considerations..... 9
   7. IANA Considerations........ 10
   8. Normative References....... 10
   9. Informative References..... 11
   Appendix A. Changes from draft-04..... 11
   Appendix B. Implementation Experience. 12
   Acknowledgments............... 13
   Author's Address.............. 13

1. Introduction

   Many peer-to-peer protocols begin by establishing a connection-
   oriented session over UDP, then layer streams, negotiation, and
   mandatory cryptography on top. LCDP takes an alternative approach:
   define a minimal datagram message format and allow applications to
   build additional properties only as needed.

   The complete wire format is a UTF-8 encoded JSON array. Each element
   is a single-key object where the key identifies the message type and
   the value is a JSON object. Receivers MUST tolerate objects with
   unknown keys and MUST tolerate unknown fields within known objects.

   As of 2026, network bandwidth and CPU cycles are no longer the
   primary bottlenecks for many applications. Development velocity,
   interoperability, and debuggability have become the limiting factors.
   JSON provides reliable generation and parsing by automated tools
   including language models, and permits inspection with standard text
   tools without specialized decoders.

   Two independent implementations have now exchanged traffic. That
   exercise confirmed the central design claim -- extension by ignoring
   unknown data worked in both directions, with neither implementation
   disturbed by the other's private message types -- and it exposed a
   set of points on which this document had been silent. Silence is
   not tolerance: where two implementations must agree and the
   specification does not say on what, they agree by accident or not at
   all. Sections 3.3, 3.5, 3.6, 3.7, 4.1 and 4.3 close those points.
   Appendix B records the evidence.

   This document is Informational and is an Independent Submission. It
   does not define a Standards Track protocol and makes no claim to
   replace existing protocols such as CoAP [RFC7252].

2. Terminology

   The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT",
   "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and
   "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in BCP
   14 [RFC2119] [RFC8174] when, and only when, they appear in all
   capitals, as shown here.


Pearson Expires 22 March 2027 [Page 2]
   Datagram: one transport payload, carrying one JSON array.

   Message: one element of that array; a single-key object whose key is
   the message type and whose value is the payload object.

   Bundle: the set of messages carried by one datagram. A datagram
   always carries a bundle, which may hold one message.

3. Wire Format

3.1. Transport

   UDP [RFC768] is RECOMMENDED. Other datagram transports MAY be used,
   i.e. websockets. Port 24254 is used by convention.

   The conventional port is a hint for discovery only. An
   implementation MUST NOT treat a source port of 24254 as evidence of
   anything about the sender: a source port is as forgeable as a source
   address, and the source verification of Section 4.1 is the only
   mechanism this document defines for establishing that a source can
   receive.

3.2. Encoding

   Each datagram payload MUST be valid UTF-8 [RFC8259] encoding a
   single JSON array. Array elements MUST be objects with exactly one
   key. The value of that key MUST be a JSON object, which MAY be
   empty.

   A JSON object in an LCDP datagram MUST NOT contain duplicate keys.
   [RFC8259] permits duplicates and defines no resolution for them, so
   two implementations may differ on whether the first or the last
   occurrence prevails. A receiver MUST refuse a datagram containing
   any object with a duplicate key rather than choose between them.
   This is not a matter of taste: Section 4.3 signs a payload that a
   verifier and a reader must agree on, and a duplicate key is a way to
   show them different documents under one signature.

3.3. Datagram Processing

   A datagram carries a bundle, and a receiver MUST process every
   message in it, not only the first. Bundling is ordinary rather than
   exceptional: the source verification of Section 4.1 travels
   alongside whatever the peer was already sending, so a datagram
   spelled

   [{"AlwaysReturned":{"cookie":"..."}},{"SomeApplicationMessage":{}}]

   is routine, and a receiver that stops after the first element
   silently discards the second. Where that discarded element is the
   cookie exchange, source verification never completes and the two
   peers stall while each believes the other is at fault.

   The order of messages within a datagram is not significant. A
   receiver MUST NOT require any particular order and MUST NOT assume
   that a message it has read is not answered by one later in the same


Pearson Expires 22 March 2027 [Page 3]
   bundle. In particular, a bundle MAY carry both a challenge and the
   answer to a previous challenge, in either order; a receiver that
   evaluates answers before challenges avoids challenging a source that
   has, in that same datagram, already verified itself.

   A reply MAY bundle several messages into one datagram, and SHOULD do
   so in preference to sending them separately.

   Section 3.4's rule that unknown data is ignored applies to data that
   is well formed and unrecognised. It does not apply to data that
   violates this section or Section 3.2. A receiver MUST refuse a
   datagram that is not valid UTF-8, does not hold a JSON array, or
   holds an element that is not an object with exactly one key whose
   value is an object. Refusing the datagram, rather than skipping the
   offending element, keeps a malformed element from being a way to
   hide a message from one implementation while another reads it.

3.4. Extensibility

   Receivers MUST ignore objects with unknown keys and MUST ignore
   unknown fields within known objects. New message types MAY be
   defined at any time. New fields MAY be added to existing message
   types. The semantics of existing fields MUST NOT change.
   Implementations MUST NOT change the type of a message payload;
   payloads are always JSON objects.

   The JSON type of a field is part of that field's identity. An
   implementation MUST NOT send a field bearing a name already in use
   with a different JSON type, and MUST NOT redefine the type of a
   field it has previously sent. Changing a field from a boolean to a
   number is an incompatible change and requires a new field name, or a
   new message type, exactly as a change of meaning does.

   This rule is easy to keep by accident and easy to break by accident.
   Two parties who have never met can coin the same field name
   independently, give it two types, and produce a collision that
   neither has violated any rule to create. Appendix B records one
   such collision found in deployment.

   To make independent coinage safe, an implementation defining a
   message type not described in this document or its successors SHOULD
   prefix that type's name with a short namespace it controls,
   separated by a period, for example

   [{"example.MyOwnMessage":{}}]

   A receiver treats a namespaced type it does not know exactly as it
   treats any other unknown type: it ignores it. Names without a
   period are reserved for types defined by this document and by
   documents that update it.

3.5. Size Limits

   Senders SHOULD limit datagrams to 5888 bytes to avoid excessive IP
   fragmentation, and MAY limit datagrams to 1200 bytes.


Pearson Expires 22 March 2027 [Page 4]
   These figures constrain senders. They do not describe what a
   receiver will be sent. A receiver MUST accept a datagram of any size
   its transport can deliver, which for UDP is 65535 octets, and MUST
   NOT size its receive buffer from the sending limit above. An
   implementation that reads into a 5888-octet buffer truncates
   conforming traffic from a sender that has chosen a larger limit, and
   truncation presents as a parse failure some distance from its cause.

   A receiver MUST refuse a datagram larger than 65535 octets before
   parsing it, including before validating its UTF-8. This bounds the
   work a stranger can ask for, and satisfies Section 6.4 without
   making the refusal depend on how much room the receiver happened to
   leave.

3.6. Field Bounds

   This document places no length limit on any string or array it
   defines. A receiver MUST NOT infer from that silence that it should
   allocate whatever a datagram asks for: a cookie, a peer list, an
   address, or an opaque parameter string arriving from an unverified
   stranger is an allocation request from an unverified stranger.

   A receiver MUST impose its own limit on the length of every string
   and the cardinality of every array it decodes, and MUST refuse a
   message that exceeds one. Those limits are a local matter and need
   not be announced. Implementations SHOULD set them well above any
   length a conforming sender has reason to write, so that a limit is
   reached only by a sender that is malfunctioning or hostile.

3.7. Hexadecimal Fields

   Every field this document specifies as hexadecimal MUST be sent as
   lowercase hexadecimal with no prefix and no separators, and MUST
   have the exact length its definition requires.

   A receiver MUST NOT canonicalize a hexadecimal field it is given; it
   refuses a field that is not already in that form. Hexadecimal
   fields identify things, and a value that can be spelled two ways is
   two identifiers for one object: it defeats comparison, defeats
   deduplication by key, and lets the same object be cached, counted or
   rate-limited twice. Accepting both spellings and normalizing does
   not fix this, because two implementations that normalize differently
   are back where they started.

   A sender MUST NOT emit a "0x" prefix. A receiver MAY strip one
   before applying the rule above, and this is the one exception to
   "MUST NOT canonicalize": stripping a fixed, unambiguous prefix
   cannot map two distinct values onto one, which is the harm the rule
   exists to prevent, whereas case folding can. A receiver that strips
   a prefix MUST still refuse the remainder if it is not lowercase and
   of the required length.

4. Core Message Types

4.1. Anti-Spoofing

   To mitigate reflection and amplification attacks, implementations
   MUST implement a source address verification mechanism.

   Implementations SHOULD verify source addresses by exchanging:


Pearson Expires 22 March 2027 [Page 5]
   [{"PleaseAlwaysReturnThisMessage":{"cookie":"string"}}]
   [{"AlwaysReturned":{"cookie":"string"}}]

   The cookie is an opaque string. A receiver echoes it byte for byte
   and MUST NOT interpret it. A sender SHOULD use a distinct
   unpredictable cookie per source address, so that an echo is evidence
   that the echoing party received the challenge rather than guessed
   it. A receiver MUST bound the cookie length per Section 3.6; an
   unbounded echo is itself the amplifier this section exists to
   prevent.

   A source is verified when it returns a cookie the receiver issued to
   that same address, within whatever lifetime the receiver gives its
   cookies.

4.1.1. The Amplification Bound

   Per [RFC8085] Section 6, receivers MUST NOT reply with responses
   larger than twice the request size to unverified sources.

   Two details of that arithmetic must be fixed, because two
   implementations that compute it differently will disagree about
   whether a conforming reply was owed.

   First, the bound is over a source's accumulated traffic, not over a
   single datagram. A receiver SHOULD maintain a byte credit per source
   address, add each datagram received from it, and subtract each
   datagram sent to it, withholding any reply the remaining credit will
   not cover. Evaluating the bound per datagram makes the protocol
   unable to start: a bare request may be smaller than half the
   challenge that answers it, in which case a strictly conforming
   receiver can never issue the challenge and the source can never
   become verified. With accumulated credit, a peer that asks again
   gets through in a small number of datagrams. An implementation MAY
   instead exempt a single outstanding challenge per source from the
   bound, provided it sends no more than one such challenge per source
   per round-trip interval and the challenge is of fixed size.

   Second, the bound is over what the network carries, not over what
   the application wrote. An implementation SHOULD count the IP and UDP
   header octets on both sides of the ledger -- as credit for a
   datagram received and as cost for a datagram sent -- because it is
   whole packets that an amplifier amplifies. An implementation that
   counts payload octets only MUST do so on both sides. Counting
   headers on one side alone misstates the ratio in whichever direction
   the omission falls.

   Content sent to an unverified source is subject to the bound like
   everything else; it is not separately forbidden. An earlier
   revision of this text forbade it "at any ratio", which was an
   overreach: a reply that fits within the bound is not an amplifier,
   and the reference implementation deliberately answers an unverified
   requester with a small content piece so that a simple client is not
   left waiting. A receiver SHOULD, however, keep such a reply to a
   fixed small size rather than one the requester chose.

   The cookie echo of Section 4.1 is exempt from the bound. It must
   reach an unverified source -- that is what verification is -- and
   its size is bounded by Section 3.6 rather than by the requester.
   This exemption and the challenge exemption above are the only two.

   Implementations MAY apply a ratio stricter than twice the request;
   one-for-one costs an honest peer at most one additional round trip.


Pearson Expires 22 March 2027 [Page 6]
4.1.2. Challenging a Verified Source

   A receiver MAY treat verification as a property of each datagram
   rather than of a source, requiring the cookie to be echoed in every
   datagram it is asked to act on. The reference implementation does
   exactly this: any datagram that does not itself carry a valid echo
   is answered as though the source were unverified, and draws a fresh
   challenge. Independently of that, an implementation MAY challenge a
   source it has already verified, as a liveness check or to re-bind an
   address.

   A sender SHOULD therefore carry the most recent cookie it has been
   given in every datagram it sends to that peer, rather than echoing
   once and considering the matter settled. A sender that echoes only
   when challenged will be treated as unverified on every datagram in
   between, and will receive whatever reply an unverified source is
   owed -- which is the failure this paragraph exists to prevent.

   A receiver MUST NOT treat the arrival of a challenge as evidence
   that its own verification has lapsed, that a transaction in progress
   has failed, or that the peer is misbehaving. It answers the
   challenge, alongside whatever else the bundle called for, and
   continues. An implementation that counts challenges toward a
   handshake attempt limit will abort long-running exchanges with
   conforming peers, since a long exchange accumulates challenges in
   proportion to its length.

   A source that has completed verification SHOULD still be rate
   limited. Verification establishes that an address can receive; it
   establishes nothing about volume.

4.2. Optional Peer Discovery

   [{"PleaseSendPeers":{}}]
   [{"Peers":{"peers":["198.51.100.1:24254"]}}]
   [{"WhereAreThey":{"ed25519h":"hex"}}]

   The Peers message contains an array of address:port strings. The
   address format is not constrained by this specification; a receiver
   treats each entry as an opaque string and MUST bound the list length
   and each entry's length per Section 3.6.

   "WhereAreThey" asks for the address of the peer holding a public
   key, spelled as Section 4.3 spells it.

4.3. Optional Cryptography

   [{"MyPublicKey":{"ed25519h":"hex"}}]
   [{"SignedMessage":{"ed25519":"hex","signature":"base64",
   "payload_json":"string"}}]
   [{"EncryptedMessages":{"base64":"string","noise_params":"string"}}]

4.3.1. Public Keys

   "ed25519h" and "SignedMessage"'s "ed25519" field carry the same
   thing under two names: the 32-octet raw Ed25519 public key
   [RFC8032], lowercase hex, exactly 64 digits, per Section 3.7. It is
   not a hash of a key; the trailing "h" abbreviates the encoding, not
   a digest. Both spellings are retained for compatibility with
   deployed senders. New message types SHOULD use "ed25519".

   A receiver MUST refuse a key that is not 64 hexadecimal digits, and
   SHOULD refuse one that does not decode to a valid compressed Edwards
   point, since no signature will verify under it and accepting it only
   defers the failure.


Pearson Expires 22 March 2027 [Page 7]
4.3.2. Signed Messages

   "signature" is the base64 encoding [RFC4648] of the 64-octet Ed25519
   signature, made with the key in "ed25519".

   The signature is computed over the payload octets exactly as they
   appear on the wire:

   o  where "payload_json" is present, the UTF-8 octets of that string
      as transmitted, before any JSON parsing and without
      re-serialization; or

   o  where "payload" is present, a base64 string, the octets it
      decodes to.

   A signer MUST NOT re-serialize, re-order, re-indent or otherwise
   canonicalize the payload before or after signing; the signature
   covers a byte string, and any transformation between signing and
   sending invalidates it. A verifier MUST verify against the octets it
   received, and MUST NOT parse the payload before the signature
   verifies.

   Exactly one of "payload_json" and "payload" MUST be present. A
   receiver MUST refuse a "SignedMessage" carrying both, and MUST
   refuse one carrying neither. Two payload fields under one signature
   are two documents with one authentication: a receiver that prefers
   one field while another receiver prefers the other can be shown
   different content by the same signed message, with both verifying.

   The payload MUST itself be a complete LCDP datagram: a JSON array of
   single-key objects, per Section 3.2. A verifier processes the
   messages it contains after the signature verifies, applying every
   rule of Section 3.3 to them, and MUST apply Section 3.5's size limit
   to the payload as it would to a datagram off the wire.

4.3.3. Encrypted Messages

   The OPTIONAL "EncryptedMessages" message type MUST encapsulate this
   protocol, i.e. a JSON array of messages. This differs from
   transport-layer security models. Alternative message types MAY be
   used for encryption.

   "base64" is the ciphertext, base64 encoded. "noise_params" is an
   opaque UTF-8 string describing the Noise configuration in use; this
   document does not define its contents, and a receiver MUST bound its
   length per Section 3.6. The plaintext MUST be a complete LCDP
   datagram, and is subject to Section 3.5's size limit once decrypted.

5. Design Considerations

   LCDP separates mechanism from policy:

   1. Statelessness: No connection state is required. This permits
       communication with large numbers of peers with minimal per-peer
       state. Source verification (Section 4.1) is the one exception,


Pearson Expires 22 March 2027 [Page 8]
       and it holds an address and a cookie rather than a session.

   2. Extensibility: Compatibility is achieved by ignoring unknown
       data, not by version negotiation. Incompatible changes require
       new message types. This has been exercised between independent
       implementations and it holds; what it does not do by itself is
       keep two parties from coining one name for two things, which is
       why Section 3.4 asks for namespacing and fixes field types.

   3. Transport Agnosticism: While UDP is RECOMMENDED, the format may
       be carried over other datagram services.

   4. Debuggability: The use of UTF-8 JSON permits inspection with
       standard tools such as tcpdump -A. Textual formats also enable
       reliable generation and validation by automated tools, reducing
       implementation friction in 2026 deployment environments.

   5. Bottleneck Shift: The design assumes that engineering time and
       cross-implementation compatibility cost more than bandwidth or
       parsing overhead for target use cases. Applications with
       extreme bandwidth constraints MAY choose alternative encodings.

   6. Minimalism is not silence: A specification small enough to
       implement in an afternoon still has to say what two
       implementations must agree on. Where this document declines to
       constrain something, such as an address format or a cookie's
       contents, it says so, and says what a receiver does with it
       anyway.

6. Security Considerations

   LCDP does not provide security properties in the base protocol.
   Security is delegated to message types defined by applications.

   1. Amplification: Implementations MUST implement rate limiting as
       described in [RFC8085] Section 6. The cookie mechanism
       described in Section 4.1 is RECOMMENDED, and Section 4.1.1
       fixes the arithmetic of the bound.

   2. Congestion Control: UDP provides no congestion control. Per
       [RFC8085] Section 3.1 applications that send more than one
       packet per RTT to a destination MUST implement congestion
       control. Low-rate gossip applications MAY operate without it.

   3. Privacy: Peer discovery messages reveal IP address and port
       information. Deployments MUST consider whether this exposure is
       acceptable for their threat model.

   4. Parser Security: Implementations MUST use memory-safe JSON
       parsers and MUST reject messages with excessive nesting depth or
       size (Section 3.5).

   5. Parser Differentials: Where two parsers can read one datagram
       differently, the difference is exploitable whenever anything is
       authenticated. Duplicate keys (Section 3.2), a signature over a


Pearson Expires 22 March 2027 [Page 9]
       re-serialized payload, and two payload fields under one
       signature (Section 4.3.2) are each a way to show a verifier and
       a reader different documents. The rules in those sections exist
       for this reason and are not stylistic.

   6. Resource Exhaustion: An unbounded string or array is a request
       to allocate memory on a stranger's word. Section 3.6 requires
       receivers to bound every field this document leaves unbounded.

7. IANA Considerations

   This document has no IANA actions.

   Message type names without a period are reserved for this document
   and documents that update it; Section 3.4 asks implementations to
   namespace their own. No registry is established. Should the number
   of independently defined message types grow enough that collisions
   between namespaces become plausible, a registry may be warranted;
   that is left to a future document.

8. Normative References

   [RFC2119] Bradner, S., "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate
              Requirement Levels", BCP 14, RFC 2119,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC2119, March 1997,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2119>.

   [RFC768] Postel, J., "User Datagram Protocol", STD 6, RFC 768,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC768, August 1980,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc768>.

   [RFC4648] Josefsson, S., "The Base16, Base32, and Base64 Data
              Encodings", RFC 4648, DOI 10.17487/RFC4648, October 2006,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4648>.

   [RFC8032] Josefsson, S. and I. Liusvaara, "Edwards-Curve Digital
              Signature Algorithm (EdDSA)", RFC 8032,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC8032, January 2017,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8032>.

   [RFC8174] Leiba, B., "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC
              2119 Key Words", BCP 14, RFC 8174, DOI 10.17487/RFC8174,
              May 2017, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8174>.

   [RFC8259] Bray, T., Ed., "The JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) Data
              Interchange Format", STD 90, RFC 8259,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC8259, December 2017,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8259>.

   [RFC8085] Eggert, L., Fairhurst, G., and G. Shepherd, "UDP Usage
              Guidelines", BCP 145, RFC 8085, DOI 10.17487/RFC8085,
              March 2017, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8085>.



Pearson Expires 22 March 2027 [Page 10]
9. Informative References

   [RFC7252] Shelby, Z., Hartke, K., and C. Bormann, "The Constrained
              Application Protocol (CoAP)", RFC 7252,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC7252, June 2014,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7252>.

   [RFC9518] Thaler, D., Ed., "Centralization, Decentralization, and
              Internet Standards", RFC 9518, DOI 10.17487/RFC9518,
              December 2023, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9518>.

Appendix A. Changes from draft-04

   No message type, field name or field meaning is changed.

   An earlier revision of this appendix also claimed that no
   conforming draft-04 sender becomes non-conforming. That was wrong,
   and the correction is worth stating rather than quietly dropping.
   Sections 3.2, 3.4, 3.7 and 4.3.2 each narrow what draft-04 permitted
   a sender to emit: draft-04 adopted [RFC8259] wholesale, so duplicate
   keys were legal; it set no case, prefix or length rule for hex; it
   told receivers to ignore unknown fields, so sending both payload
   fields was legal; and it did not fix a field's JSON type. Each
   narrowing removes an ambiguity that two implementations cannot
   resolve consistently, which is why the rules are kept and the claim
   is amended instead. A draft-04 sender that already emits lowercase
   unprefixed hex of the required length, no duplicate keys, and at
   most one payload field is unaffected.

   Wire format:

   o  Section 3.2: duplicate JSON keys MUST be refused.

   o  Section 3.3 (new): a receiver MUST process every message in a
      datagram; message order is not significant; malformed data is
      refused rather than ignored, "ignore unknown" being distinct from
      "ignore malformed".

   o  Section 3.4: a field's JSON type is part of its identity and MUST
      NOT be changed; implementation-defined message types SHOULD be
      namespaced.

   o  Section 3.5: the 5888-octet figure is a sending limit only;
      receivers MUST accept up to the transport's own ceiling and MUST
      refuse beyond 65535 octets before parsing.

   o  Section 3.6 (new): receivers MUST bound every string and array
      this document leaves unbounded.

   o  Section 3.7 (new): hexadecimal fields are lowercase, unprefixed,
      exact length, and are refused rather than canonicalized.

   Anti-spoofing:

   o  Section 4.1: the cookie is opaque, echoed byte for byte, per-
      source, unpredictable and length-bounded.

   o  Section 4.1.1 (new): the amplification bound accumulates per
      source rather than per datagram, because a per-datagram reading
      cannot issue the challenge that a small request calls for;
      header octets are counted on both sides or neither; content is
      subject to the bound rather than separately forbidden, and the
      cookie echo is exempt from it.

   o  Section 4.1.2 (new): verification MAY be a property of each
      datagram, so a sender SHOULD carry the cookie in every datagram;
      a challenge MUST NOT be read as a lapsed verification


Pearson Expires 22 March 2027 [Page 11]
      or a failed exchange. Verified sources are still rate limited.

   Cryptography:

   o  Section 4.3.1: "ed25519h" and "ed25519" are the same thing, the
      raw 32-octet public key in lowercase hex, not a hash.

   o  Section 4.3.2: the signature covers the payload's wire octets,
      unparsed and unre-serialized; the "payload" (base64) field is
      documented; exactly one payload field MUST be present; the
      payload is itself a complete LCDP datagram.

   o  Section 4.3.3: "noise_params" is opaque and bounded; the
      plaintext is a complete LCDP datagram.

   Security Considerations gain parser differentials and resource
   exhaustion. Section 3.1 notes that the conventional port is not
   evidence. Section 7 reserves unnamespaced type names without
   establishing a registry.

Appendix B. Implementation Experience

   The changes in Appendix A come from traffic exchanged between two
   independent implementations: cjp2p (Rust, the reference
   implementation) and lcdp-rs (Rust, an independent clean-room
   implementation written from this document). Both speak LCDP over
   UDP; the findings below were observed on the wire or in the other
   implementation's source, not deduced from the specification.

   What held. Extension by ignoring worked in both directions. Each
   implementation bundles message types the other has never heard of,
   and neither is disturbed by the other's. No version was negotiated
   and none was missed. The design's central claim survives contact.

   The bundling assumption. cjp2p bundles its cookie challenge with
   payload, so a fetch begins with a datagram of the shape
   [Content, PleaseAlwaysReturnThisMessage] -- the piece first, the
   challenge after it, and the piece trimmed to 32 octets precisely
   because the request it answered carried no echo. lcdp-rs read the
   first message and stopped. The cookie was discarded, verification
   never completed, and the fetch stalled with each side waiting.
   Nothing in
   draft-04 said to read the second element. Section 3.3.

   Receive buffer sizing. cjp2p will serve a content piece of up to
   40960 payload octets -- about 55000 octets of datagram once base64
   encoded, some nine times draft-04's sending SHOULD -- to a peer that
   asks for that much. This is read from its source rather than
   observed on a wire, and cjp2p itself never requests more than 4096,
   so the ceiling is reached only by a peer that asks. The point stands
   regardless: the sending SHOULD says nothing about what a receiver
   will be sent, and a buffer sized to 5888 is sized to the wrong
   number. Section 3.5.

   The field type collision. Both implementations carry content with a
   "Content" message bearing an "eof" field, coined independently, and
   the two gave it different JSON types: one a boolean marking the last
   piece, the other the content's total octet count, sent on every
   piece. Neither party broke a rule in draft-04 to arrive here --
   though Section 3.4's new rule does make lcdp-rs the offender in
   retrospect, since it is the implementation that changed a field's
   type after shipping it. lcdp-rs now accepts both shapes; cjp2p
   accepts only the numeric one, and a boolean "eof" fails its
   deserializer. This is the origin of Section 3.4's rule on
   field types and its request for namespacing. (The content transfer
   messages themselves are an extension, not core, and are not


Pearson Expires 22 March 2027 [Page 12]
   specified by this document; a companion document may pin them.)

   The unstartable handshake. Computing the 2x bound per datagram, a
   24-octet request (52 with IPv4 and UDP headers) cannot pay for an
   81-octet challenge (109 with headers). That challenge size is
   lcdp-rs's, which carries a 32-hex cookie; cjp2p's is 57 octets, 85
   with headers, which a per-datagram 2x bound does cover. So the bound
   is unstartable for cookies of roughly thirty hex digits or more
   rather than universally, and the challenge's size is the receiver's
   choice. Accumulating credit per source removes the dependency on
   that choice. Section 4.1.1.

   Challenge as liveness -- a misdiagnosis, corrected. An earlier
   revision of this appendix said cjp2p re-sends its challenge to
   verified peers roughly once per second, bundled with the piece it is
   answering, and Section 4.1.2 was written around that. It is not what
   cjp2p does. cjp2p keeps no per-source verified state for this
   purpose: it evaluates the echo per datagram, so a challenge in its
   reply means the datagram it answered carried no valid echo and was
   treated as unverified -- which is also why that reply was trimmed.
   Separately, it challenges a rotating set of peers about once a
   second in a periodic probe, and those datagrams carry no content
   piece at all. The once-per-second cadence lcdp-rs observed was its
   own retry timer.

   lcdp-rs counted these toward a handshake attempt limit and aborted
   live transfers; the longer the transfer, the more reliably it
   failed. Not counting them, as lcdp-rs now does, treats the symptom.
   The cure is for a sender to carry the cookie in every datagram, and
   Section 4.1.2 now says so.

   The public key spelling. draft-04's "ed25519h" was read as a hash of
   a key, its "h" suffix suggesting one, while its use suggested a key.
   In cjp2p it is a 32-octet raw public key, hex encoded, validated as
   a compressed Edwards point; "SignedMessage"'s "ed25519" field holds
   the identical type. Section 4.3.1.

   Two payloads, one signature. cjp2p's "SignedMessage" carries an
   undocumented "payload" field, base64, as an alternative to
   "payload_json", and prefers "payload_json" when both are present. A
   receiver preferring the other field would verify the same signature
   against different content. Section 4.3.2.

   Further fields observed in deployment and deliberately left
   unspecified here: "MyPublicKey" carries an optional
   "ed25519_eth_signed", an Ethereum signature over an ASCII statement
   binding the Ed25519 key to a wallet address. It is a working
   example of Section 3.4 in use, and a candidate for namespacing.

Acknowledgments

   The design of LCDP is informed by operational experience with peer-
   to-peer systems and by the observations in [RFC9518] regarding
   protocol design trade-offs in 2026.

   The interoperability findings in Appendix B come from work on
   lcdp-rs by Zach Norman, tested against cjp2p.

Author's Address

   Christopher Pearson
   Independent
   Email: lcdp@azai.net

Additional Resources

    https://github.com/kermit4/LCDP

Pearson Expires 22 March 2027 [Page 13]
